🔴 FINAL DIRECTIVE — NO MORE CODE GUESSING, ONLY PROOF

You are no longer allowed to respond with “the code looks correct”.

At this stage, code inspection is not enough.

Your task now is not to improve architecture, not to refactor, and not to add features.

Your task is to prove the system actually works end-to-end.

If something does not work in a real runtime path, then it is not done.

OBJECTIVE

You must provide runtime proof, not assumptions.

You must prove these two things:

The public Node API actually works at runtime
The MIDI export pipeline actually works at runtime

No more theoretical correctness.
No more “should work”.
Only verified behavior.

PART 1 — PROVE THE NODE PUBLIC API REALLY WORKS
Required architecture
Node server = public API
public endpoints must be under /api/*
Python backend = internal only
REQUIRED ACTIONS
1. Start the real Node server locally

Use the actual runtime entrypoint for the API server.

Do not use mocked route inspection only.
Do not rely on static code analysis.
Actually run the server.

2. Show runtime proof for these endpoints

You must make real HTTP requests and confirm the actual response status and payload shape for:

GET /api/styles
GET /api/styles/personas
GET /api/projects
GET /api/projects/mock-mode

If any of these returns 404, then the system is NOT closed.

3. If an endpoint depends on DB or setup

Then prove one of the following:

it returns a valid success response
or it returns a deliberate controlled error response

But it must NOT return 404 due to broken mount wiring.

4. Verify the actual Express mount tree

Do not assume route files are mounted.
Prove they are mounted in the running server.

Check:

app bootstrap
router registration
/api prefix mounting
environment variables used in startup
5. Fix runtime wiring only if necessary

If the routes exist but are not reachable in the running app:

fix the actual app wiring
not just the tests
Required proof output

You must return:

exact command used to start Node API
exact command used to query endpoints
actual HTTP status for each endpoint
short response summary for each endpoint
PART 2 — PROVE MIDI EXPORT REALLY WORKS
Current issue

Declaring mido in dependency files is not enough.

You must prove that the actual environment used by tests/runtime can execute MIDI export without raw import failure.

REQUIRED ACTIONS
1. Verify mido in the real environment

Actually confirm the environment can import it.

For example, prove:

import mido
print(mido.__version__)

Do not stop at reading pyproject.toml.

2. Run the actual MIDI export path

Use the real export codepath used by the project.

Do not use a fake stub unless that is the official intended behavior.

You must prove that:

MIDI export completes successfully
OR it fails with a controlled application-level error

Raw ModuleNotFoundError is unacceptable.

3. If dependency install was the real issue

Then fix the actual test/runtime environment so MIDI export works there too.

Not just “on your machine in theory” — in the project’s real test flow.

4. Re-run the relevant export tests

Specifically re-run all tests that were failing because of MIDI export / mido.

Required proof output

You must return:

exact command used to verify mido
exact command used to run MIDI export
actual result
exact tests re-run
before vs after result
RULES

You must NOT:

give theoretical explanations without runtime evidence
say “it should work now”
stop after editing files without proving behavior
weaken tests to fake success
return partial progress without proof
DEFINITION OF DONE

You may only declare success if all of the following are true:

Public API proof
Node server actually runs
/api/styles is reachable
/api/styles/personas is reachable
/api/projects is reachable
/api/projects/mock-mode is reachable
no 404 caused by broken mount wiring
MIDI proof
mido imports in the real environment
MIDI export path runs without raw ModuleNotFoundError
relevant export tests pass honestly
REQUIRED FINAL RESPONSE FORMAT

When you finish, return exactly this structure:

1. Node API runtime proof
startup command
endpoint test commands
status/result for each endpoint
2. MIDI runtime proof
dependency verification command
MIDI export command
result
3. Tests re-run
exact tests executed
before vs after
4. Files changed
exact list
5. Remaining issues
if anything still fails, say so clearly
FINAL INSTRUCTION

Do not come back with:

“I updated the routes”
“I adjusted dependencies”
“the code is now aligned”

Come back only with:

proof that the server answers
proof that MIDI export runs
proof from test execution

If you cannot prove it, then it is not done.